https://listverse.com/2016/01/09/10-supernatural-creatures-of-islamic-tradition/

Angels: Angels are being of pure light, incapable of evil but posessing no free will.
        They do not eat, drink, or tire. They only do what God commands them to do.
        They are huge and can travel at the speed of light.
        Jibril (Gabriel) has 600 wings that span across the entire horizon, his height stretching from Heaven to Earth.
        Other cool angels: Mikail who controls the rain, the Angel of Death, with the space between his eyes stretching across 70'000 steps.

Jinn: Can refer to both all non-human creatures or to a specific type created from "smokeless flame" (marij min nar).
      Associated with black dogs and serpents.
      The most powerful of these Jinn is known today as Iblis or Al-Shaitan, aka Satan.
      God had deemed him worthy of being his pupil, but he refused to bow before Adam.
      It is important to note that the Jinn are capable of good and evil to the same degree that humans are. They are simply very powerful.
      Capable of believing in any faith.
      Bref, demons and the devil are jinn, but not all jinn are demons.

Hinn: Refers to beings created from "scorching flame" (samum). Unlike the more earthen Jinn, these boyz prefer to aspire to heaven.
      They regularly help out the angels, and even did so against the Jinn when they brought "disaster to the world".
      This disaster is probably in reference to the disobediance of Iblis.
      They're believed by some to still be alive in the form of tamed wild dogs, especially piebald dogs.

Binn: Beings who preceded the Jinn and the Hinn. 
      Their namesake suggests they were made from some kind of fire, most likely from a "growing flame"
      They typically inhabited the area around modern day Yemen. 
      They eventually brought chaos onto the world, and so God sent the Jinn to end them. 
      Note that the Angels and their allies the Hinn had served the same purpose against the Jinn, but they remained existent.
     
Other types: The timm and the rimm. Not much is known other than that they preceded the Binn.




